now the UK government has announced it's
suspending 30 of its 350 licenses to
export arms to Israel from 2022 to June
last year the UK sent nearly $75 million
worth of weapons to Israel roughly 25
million was for aircraft including
helicopters and drones and the licenses
being suspended include components for
unmanned drones and F-16 fighter jets
sales of Naval systems and targeting
equipment have also been halted but the
UK foreign secretary David Lamy says
this is not a blanket ban and only
affects weapons that could be used in
serious breach of international
humanitarian
law we have with us Luciano zakara who's
joining us here in the studio who's an
associate professor of Gulf politics at
Qatar University welcome back to
aljazera so I've been digging into this
and it looks like this is only 10% of
the UK's arms exports to Israel that
have now been suspended and particularly
what's most important is that the F35
jet components from the UK
uh which is crucial for Israel which is
being used in the war on Gaza is not
being suspended so is this move by the
UK anything more than symbolic at this
point it is a little bit more than
symbolic but not as uh has it doesn't
have practical effects in the
continuation of the war but this is
signal that the UK is really concerned
about how the arms are are used to
violate the international law and can
give um ideas to other countries that
they are the main suppliers of uh of
Israel which is United States and
Germany of course the amount of of money
$75 million in 3 years is not a
significant amount so Israel will not be
affected in in terms of the continuation
of the war in gasa because of because of
that but uh but it's targeting something
that has to do with uh the the the war
in gasa or how some aspect of the war
are conducted in gasa and also in
confrontation with do you think that
other countries are going to uh follow
suit at this point and look let's think
about the US in particular because you
mentioned the US um why is Biden not
using that arms leverage on Israel at
this point I mean my guest a moment ago
was saying that the US is running out of
patience with Israel but the US does
have that leverage and according to an
Israeli official an Air Force official
who was speaking to the hrat newspaper
he said without us Aid Israel couldn't
fight Gaza Beyond a few months exactly
we know this is the very beginning of
the war every time that Biden warn uh
Netanyahu we don't want 30,000 more
people kill we don't want you to enter
into Rafa we know you etc etc and he
used to some extent this pressure that
delayed one week uh the delivery of guns
but nothing happened so everything has
been a Blu from the the Biden side and
so far I mean he was before worried
about the campaign the political
electoral campaign now he's not worried
anymore he wants to finish his term with
something that is not a continuation of
the war but he doesn't have the elements
to do so he doesn't have uh the will to
pressure Netanyahu using the only arm
that he has and this the most powerful
arm which is uh stop the delivery of arm
so far if he didn't do it in 11 months
we cannot expect him to do it before the
end of his term so I don't think this
will happen anytime soon our
understanding is that there are
obstacles remaining to any uh potential
ceasefire but Biden uh spoke on Monday
and he said that the US is very close to
presenting a final proposal that would
lead to the release of Israeli captives
in Gaza what does this final proposal
look like to you I mean is it any
different from the one that was endorsed
by the US uh back in May then endorsed
by a un Security Council resolution on
June the 10th as first Biden cannot get
uh Netanyahu to reduce this expectation
about keeping forces in the Philadelphia
Corridor in and trops that they are
cutting gasa in two I don't think there
will be any breakout in in negotiations
so H the fact that he said that Nan is
not doing enough or he said simply no
he's not doing enough h means that he
could pressure a little bit more on that
sense but thenan made it very clear that
this is not negotiable at all so what
else can be acceptable for Hamas if they
keep saying that the military presence
will remain there and will prevent or or
will scan everybody that is moving from
the south to the north as is have been
discussed in the last two round of of
conversation so I don't see how we can
see that um optimism of of Biden
nowadays okay thank you so much for your
analysis make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz